---
layout: post
title: Deliverer explained I
---

I'm going to talk here about some piece of old Java code writen by me back in the summer of 1999. The code may not be writen in todays' standards, but the idea behind it deserves to have a place in our world. Even if it was written seventeen years ago, I think I haven't seen something alike. That's why I dare to mention it. I never came up with an apropriate name for the project, but given it's nature I became used to call it Deliverer. I've [writen](http://search.lores.eu/mhyst_del.htm) about it in the past a few times. Even so, I feel I've never explained the true nature and full potential of Deliverer. This isn't but a new attempt. This time I'll try another approach. Instead of going into technical details, I'll tell you the history of Deliverer. I hope this time I will catch your attention. It is not just the story of a development but also part of my life.

It was August, 1999. The year before I had been hired by a company based in Madrid. I moved there from my village by November the 16th of 1998. At first, my brother (who was also looking for work in Madrid) and I entered to live in a flat with other two guys. But by June 1999 we had moved to a flat for us alone. It was on the lower ground floor and was little, but we were just the two of us and actually we spent all day at work and just needed a place to sleep. Starting in July we had summer schedule and we were working only the mornings from 8:00 to 15:30. In August most people in the office was on vacation. By then I had next to nothing personal life and enjoyed a lot being before a computer (which I laked at my flat in Madrid), so after eating a quick lunch in a nearby restaurant I returned to the office everyday to spend the afternoon in a cool air-conditioned environment before my work computer. Still part of the staff had to work during the afternoon, so the office was open for most part of the day. I used that time to work on my personal projects.

One afternoon the heat in the office was annoying in spite of the continuous work of our air-conditioners. I decided to have a hot tea because I found it refreshing. Between sip and sip, I was pondering what was the better approach to a problem. It happened too many times, that while working far at a client's office I missed a file that I knew it was on my office's computer. I usually resolved the trouble calling a coworker and asking him to open my computer and send me the file by email. It was annoying itself because I had to disturb a friend and tolerate someone's interference with my computer with which I had a passionate connection. That afternoon of my story I decided that I wanted to seek a better solution. Let's put clear first that by then tools like Dropbox just didn't exist. There was an added problem, it is that sometimes I wanted a file from my computer and other times I needed one from the office' server. We had an FTP server fully operational, but most of the time the files in question were not there available for me to download. This problem was the one who made me coming up with something like Deliverer. It was not an epyphany but an progressive development that led me to the final idea.

To be continued...
